README.md, before:

# OpenGL Project Template

This repository provides a basic OpenGL project template or skeleton, designed to be used as a starting point for new OpenGL projects. It sets up a minimal environment with essential libraries and a clear project structure, allowing you to focus on developing your graphics applications.

## Features

*   **Cross-platform build system:** Uses CMake to generate project files for various platforms (e.g., Visual Studio on Windows, Makefiles on Linux/macOS).
*   **Pre-configured dependencies:** Includes common OpenGL libraries like GLFW (for windowing and input), GLM (OpenGL Mathematics), glad (OpenGL function loader), and stb_image (for image loading).
*   **Basic project structure:** Organizes source code, resources, and dependencies into logical directories.

## Project Structure

*   `src/`: Contains the core application source code (`.cpp` and `.h` files).
*   `dep/`: External dependencies (glad, stb_image, GLFW, GLM).
*   `resources/`: Shader files (`.vert`, `.frag`) and other assets.
*   `build/`: (Generated by CMake) Contains the build files and compiled executables.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

*   **CMake:** Version 3.10 or higher.
*   **C++ Compiler:** A C++17 compatible compiler (e.g., MSVC on Windows, GCC/Clang on Linux/macOS).


### Building the Project

1.  **Create a build directory:**
    ```bash
    mkdir build
    cd build
    ```

2.  **Run CMake to generate project files:**
    *   **On Windows (Visual Studio):**
        ```bash
        cmake ..
        ```
        (I used "Visual Studio 17 2022" and "x64". You may need to use and change "cmake .. -G "Visual Studio 17 2022" -A x64" based on your Visual Studio version and desired architecture.)
    *   **On Linux/macOS (Makefiles):**
        ```bash
        cmake ..
        ```

3.  **Build the project:**
    *   **On Windows (Visual Studio):** Open the generated `OpenGLProjectTemplate.sln` file in the `build/` directory and build the solution.
    *   **On Linux/macOS (Makefiles):**
        ```bash
        make
        ```

### Running the Application

After building, the executable will be located in the `build/Debug/` (Windows) or `build/` (Linux/macOS) directory.

*   **On Windows:** Navigate to `build/Debug/` and run `OpenGLProjectTemplate.exe`.
*   **On Linux/macOS:** Navigate to `build/` and run `./OpenGLProjectTemplate`.

## Understanding `FindGfxLibs.cmake`

The `FindGfxLibs.cmake` file is a custom CMake module designed to simplify the process of finding and linking common graphics-related libraries (like GLFW and GLM) to your project. Instead of manually specifying include paths and library files in your main `CMakeLists.txt`, this module provides helper functions that automate the discovery and linking process.

It primarily looks for libraries in a few places:
*   Through CMake's `find_package` mechanism (if the library is installed system-wide).
*   Via environment variables (e.g., `GLFW_DIR`).
*   Within the `dep/` directory of this project, assuming you've placed the necessary header and library files there.

This approach keeps your main `CMakeLists.txt` clean and makes it easier to manage external dependencies.

## Customizing the Project

### Changing the Default Startup Project in Visual Studio

By default, CMake is configured to set `ALL_BUILD` as the startup project in Visual Studio. You will need to change this to `OpenGLProjectTemplate` manually in order to run it in Visual Studio:

1.  Open the `OpenGLProjectTemplate.sln` file in Visual Studio.
2.  In the Solution Explorer, right-click on the `OpenGLProjectTemplate` project (or your desired project).
3.  Select "Set as Startup Project".

### Adding New Source Files

When you add new `.cpp` or `.h` files to the `src/` directory (or its subdirectories), CMake's `file(GLOB_RECURSE ...)` commands should automatically pick them up. However, after adding new files, you should re-run CMake in your `build` directory to ensure the project files are updated:

```bash
cd build
cmake ..
```

Then, rebuild your project.

### Managing Shader Files

Shader files (`.vert`, `.frag`, `.glsl`) located in the `resources/` directory are automatically grouped under a "Resource Files" filter in Visual Studio for better organization.

### Adding New External Dependencies

If you need to add new external libraries to your project, here's a general approach:

1.  **Place the library files:**
    *   For header-only libraries, place the header files in `dep/include/`.
    *   For libraries with compiled binaries (`.lib`, `.a`, `.so`, `.dylib`), place the compiled library files in `dep/lib/` and their corresponding header files in `dep/include/`.

2.  **Update `CMakeLists.txt`:**
    *   **Include Directories:** Add the library's include path to `include_directories()` or use `target_include_directories()` for specific targets.
        ```cmake
        include_directories(
            "dep/include/YourNewLib" # Example
        )
        ```
    *   **Link Libraries:** Link the library to your executable using `target_link_libraries()`.
        ```cmake
        target_link_libraries(${CMAKE_PROJECT_NAME} "dep/lib/YourNewLib.lib") # Example for Windows
        ```
    *   **Consider a `FindYourNewLib.cmake` module:** For more complex libraries or if you plan to reuse them across multiple projects, consider creating a `FindYourNewLib.cmake` module similar to `FindGfxLibs.cmake` to encapsulate the finding and linking logic.

3.  **Re-run CMake:** After modifying `CMakeLists.txt`, always re-run CMake in your `build` directory to update your project files.
    ```bash
    cd build
    cmake ..
    ```

---

Commit message:

added more xcode instruction to readme.md

README.md, after:

# OpenGL Project Template

This repository provides a basic OpenGL project template or skeleton, designed to be used as a starting point for new OpenGL projects. It sets up a minimal environment with essential libraries and a clear project structure, allowing you to focus on developing your graphics applications.

## Features

*   **Cross-platform build system:** Uses CMake to generate project files for various platforms (e.g., Visual Studio on Windows, Makefiles on Linux/macOS).
*   **Pre-configured dependencies:** Includes common OpenGL libraries like GLFW (for windowing and input), GLM (OpenGL Mathematics), glad (OpenGL function loader), and stb_image (for image loading).
*   **Basic project structure:** Organizes source code, resources, and dependencies into logical directories.

## Project Structure

*   `src/`: Contains the core application source code (`.cpp` and `.h` files).
*   `dep/`: External dependencies (glad, stb_image, GLFW, GLM).
*   `resources/`: Shader files (`.vert`, `.frag`) and other assets.
*   `build/`: (Generated by CMake) Contains the build files and compiled executables.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

*   **CMake:** Version 3.10 or higher.
*   **C++ Compiler:** A C++17 compatible compiler (e.g., MSVC on Windows, GCC/Clang on Linux/macOS).


### Building the Project

1.  **Create a build directory:**
    ```bash
    mkdir build
    cd build
    ```

2.  **Run CMake to generate project files:**
    *   **On Windows (Visual Studio):**
        ```bash
        cmake ..
        ```
      * or (with specific VS version and architecture)
        ```bash
        cmake .. -G "Visual Studio 17 2022" -A x64
        ```
        (I used "Visual Studio 17 2022" and "x64". You may need to change this based on your Visual Studio version and desired architecture.)
    *   **On macOS (Makefiles):**
        ```bash
        cmake -G Xcode ..
        ```

3.  **Build the project:**
    *   **On Windows (Visual Studio):** Open the generated `OpenGLProjectTemplate.sln` file in the `build/` directory and build the solution.
    *   **On Linux/macOS (Makefiles):**
        ```bash
        make
        ```

### Running the Application

After building, the executable will be located in the `build/Debug/` (Windows) or `build/` (Linux/macOS) directory.

*   **On Windows:** Navigate to `build/Debug/` and run `OpenGLProjectTemplate.exe`.
*   **On Linux/macOS:** Navigate to `build/` and run `./OpenGLProjectTemplate`.

## Understanding `FindGfxLibs.cmake`

The `FindGfxLibs.cmake` file is a custom CMake module designed to simplify the process of finding and linking common graphics-related libraries (like GLFW and GLM) to your project. Instead of manually specifying include paths and library files in your main `CMakeLists.txt`, this module provides helper functions that automate the discovery and linking process.

It primarily looks for libraries in a few places:
*   Through CMake's `find_package` mechanism (if the library is installed system-wide).
*   Via environment variables (e.g., `GLFW_DIR`).
*   Within the `dep/` directory of this project, assuming you've placed the necessary header and library files there.

This approach keeps your main `CMakeLists.txt` clean and makes it easier to manage external dependencies.

## Customizing the Project

### Changing the Default Startup Project in Visual Studio

By default, CMake is configured to set `ALL_BUILD` as the startup project in Visual Studio. You will need to change this to `OpenGLProjectTemplate` manually in order to run it in Visual Studio:

1.  Open the `OpenGLProjectTemplate.sln` file in Visual Studio.
2.  In the Solution Explorer, right-click on the `OpenGLProjectTemplate` project (or your desired project).
3.  Select "Set as Startup Project".

### Adding New Source Files

When you add new `.cpp` or `.h` files to the `src/` directory (or its subdirectories), CMake's `file(GLOB_RECURSE ...)` commands should automatically pick them up. However, after adding new files, you should re-run CMake in your `build` directory to ensure the project files are updated:

```bash
cd build
cmake ..
```

Then, rebuild your project.

### Managing Shader Files

Shader files (`.vert`, `.frag`, `.glsl`) located in the `resources/` directory are automatically grouped under a "Resource Files" filter in Visual Studio for better organization.

### Adding New External Dependencies

If you need to add new external libraries to your project, here's a general approach:

1.  **Place the library files:**
    *   For header-only libraries, place the header files in `dep/include/`.
    *   For libraries with compiled binaries (`.lib`, `.a`, `.so`, `.dylib`), place the compiled library files in `dep/lib/` and their corresponding header files in `dep/include/`.

2.  **Update `CMakeLists.txt`:**
    *   **Include Directories:** Add the library's include path to `include_directories()` or use `target_include_directories()` for specific targets.
        ```cmake
        include_directories(
            "dep/include/YourNewLib" # Example
        )
        ```
    *   **Link Libraries:** Link the library to your executable using `target_link_libraries()`.
        ```cmake
        target_link_libraries(${CMAKE_PROJECT_NAME} "dep/lib/YourNewLib.lib") # Example for Windows
        ```
    *   **Consider a `FindYourNewLib.cmake` module:** For more complex libraries or if you plan to reuse them across multiple projects, consider creating a `FindYourNewLib.cmake` module similar to `FindGfxLibs.cmake` to encapsulate the finding and linking logic.

3.  **Re-run CMake:** After modifying `CMakeLists.txt`, always re-run CMake in your `build` directory to update your project files.
    ```bash
    cd build
    cmake ..
    ```

---
